---
title: "Dreams"
publishDate: "2007-03-31"
modifiedDate: "2007-03-31"
slug: "dreams"
author: "Duane Storey"
category:
  - "Journal"
---

For some reason, I’m one of those people that rarely dreams. Or rather, I’m told, I rarely remember what it is I dream about, because apparently everyone dreams every night. Lately, I’ve found myself dreaming alot more. Sometimes the dreams are good, and I’m almost sad to wake up from them. But also, I’ve been having some nasty ones that I just can’t seem to shake.

When I was a kid, I had a bunch of work done on my teeth. They pulled four out to make some room, added some weird device to the roof of my mouth to help hold things in place, and of course, I had the token installation of braces for a while. It wasn’t very traumatic at the time, but I find myself dreaming about this kind of stuff lately.

I have this one recurring dream (I guess you could almost say nightmare) where my teeth fall out slowly over the course of the dream. It starts out with my sort of feeling like one or two teeth are a bit loose, and then having them get looser and looser until I’m trying to hold them in place somehow. And when they do fall out, I start collecting them like they are severed limbs and there’s some hope of reconnecting them in the hospital.

That one always bothers me, and when I wake up it takes me a while to actually believe all my teeth are in fact still in my mouth, and are all sturdy.

Last night I passed out on my bed and dreamed of boats and stormy waters. I can’t really remember more than that, but I remember big waves and lots of rain.. Maybe I’ll find out more tonight.