---
title: "Maid Day"
publishDate: "2008-01-18"
modifiedDate: "2008-01-18"
slug: "maid-day"
author: "Duane Storey"
category:
  - "Journal"
tag:
  - "cleaning"
  - "Health"
  - "home"
  - "Journal"
  - "life maid simple"
  - "maid"
---

Yes, it’s that time of month again, maid day. When I got sick with pneumonia in the fall my mom came and spent a few days with me and ended up cleaning my entire apartment. Being a busy, single guy, it was in a pretty sad state. My mom, being a constant worrier, implored me, for her sake, to get someone to help clean my apartment so it would be clean and I wouldn’t have to worry about getting sick at home.

Since I’m sort of cheap (at least for things that don’t involve technology), but wanted to put my mom’s mind at ease, I made myself a compromise — I’d get a maid but cancel my cable TV to pay for it. So, that’s what I did, and I’ve had two girls come every two weeks and clean my apartment for me ever since.

At first it felt weird paying someone to clean my apartment, but I’ve gotten used to it. Considering I used to spend a large amount of time each week attempting to clean my apartment (but since I suck at cleaning it never really got very clean), it’s really nice having some extra time now to do other things.

It costs me about $50 every two weeks, which is pretty expensive based on a few other people I know who have the same setup. But the girls are cute, fun to talk to, they do a good job and are bonded, so I’m ok with it for now.

So after three or four months now, I can say I’m a happy camper and I’m glad with the decision I made. If you’re on the fence about doing something similar, I’d say go for it — you probably won’t regret it.

In case anyone is wondering, the people who clean my place are part of [Life Maid Simple](http://www.lifemaidsimple.ca/), which is a relatively new business that prides itself in only using eco-friendly products.

Oh, and a little tidbit of information to start a war — I asked them who their dirtiest clients were one time. The answer? Women, mostly professionals like doctors and lawyers. One specific girl’s apartment required the removal of 8 hefty green garbage bags in a one bedroom apartment on their first visit. So I don’t feel that bad now.

I’m laying low tonight and probably doing a bit of work on the computer (I really need to unplug soon). Tomorrow morning (early!) I’m going on a field trip with John and Rebecca to the airport to see [Rebecca](http://miss604.com) off to Toronto for her showing on [Test The Nation](http://www.miss604.com/2008/01/test-the-nation-more-info-and-bc-bloggers.html). Will post some photos when I get back.