---
title: "Debt Free"
publishDate: "2009-08-07"
modifiedDate: "2009-08-07"
slug: "debt-free"
author: "Duane Storey"
category:
  - "Journal"
tag:
  - "change"
  - "Debt"
  - "Expenses"
  - "Wind"
---

While I’m not officially debt free yet, I’m close enough that I’m going to do a post about it. Strangely enough, making those calls today to pay off my loans felt a bit anti-climactic. I’m sure it’ll sink in over the next few days, but right now it doesn’t really feel that much different.

It’s amazing how debt changes your life though. Had I been debt free years ago, I probably would have quit my job in Vancouver and branched out on my own then. But unfortunately, when you have nearly $1,000 worth of monthly debt payments, you really can’t afford to take that much risk. The only way I was able to leave my full-time job early and branch out in January was because I essentially worked two jobs for the previous six months, banking nearly $10k in the process. That gave me enough runway to ramp things up with Dale and make it so I didn’t have to worry all that much.

Strangely enough, for the first time really since I was 18, I don’t really have any expenses in my life other than rent and food. Which means I could basically rent out my apartment, get on a plane and go exploring for a few months if I wanted. In reality I can work from anywhere with an internet connection, so conceivably I could spend my days sipping wine in Paris, working from a quant little shop with a view of the Eiffel Tower.

That’s always been a dream of mine to be honest — to be in some remote place in the middle of nowhere, doing some client work from a simple internet connection on the other side of the world. How cool would that be?

In the short term, I have no plans, but given how my lease is up in January, who knows where the wind will take me.