---
title: "10 More Days"
publishDate: "2009-11-09"
modifiedDate: "2009-11-09"
slug: "10-more-days"
author: "Duane Storey"
category:
  - "Journal"
tag:
  - "car"
  - "seattle"
  - "Trip"
  - "vacation"
---

Hard to believe I’ll be getting on a plane in 10 days and heading on vacation for two weeks. Truthfully, I’m really looking forward to relaxing by the pool with a few books. Reading is something I get a lot of enjoyment out of, but for whatever reason I go through big periods where I don’t really read all that much. So I’m hoping to hit a Chapters store before I leave and grab a pile of books.

Like most vacations, I’m debating whether or not to bring my digital SLR. Truthfully, I think I’m going to leave it at home this time. I love having it around, but it’s just a pain lugging it around and constantly worrying about whether or not it’s safe in my room. I’ll probably just bring my little powershot camera and make due with that.

In terms of luggage, I really have no idea how to pack for two weeks. If I leave my DSLR at home I’ll probably take a smaller suitcase in its place, which means I’ll have a bit more room for packing clothes, books and what-not. Unfortunately finding summer clothes out in Chilliwack is a bit of a challenge at this time of year for obvious reasons, so I’ll probably head into the city at some point to do some shopping, or maybe when I’m down in Seattle this upcoming weekend. The sandals I currently have hurt my feet, so I’d like to find a better pair.

I went out last night to a fundraiser at the Jolly Miller pub. Prior to that I met up with some friends at the Duke of Dublin pub downtown for a few drinks. On the way there, I looked at the center column in my car and noticed that the LCD readout was completely garbled. Not only that, but it was rotating through all the possibly combinations as fast as possible. That LCD is responsible for readouts such as my gas mileage, gas left, the clock, and CD/radio information. So while the CD player still appears to work, the readout is completely useless. That center unit was replaced by Mazda last year, so hopefully everything is still under warranty. Either way, I’ll have to swing by Mazda this week and get their opinion on it.

Other than that, it’s business as usual this week. I think Wednesday is a holiday up here. I might swing by a local legion and have a beer or two with some veterans on that day, which is something I’ve always wanted to do on remembrance day. I’ll be leaving in the morning on Friday to spend a weekend down in Seattle, which should a fun trip.