---
title: "Nail Biting 101"
publishDate: "2010-10-15"
modifiedDate: "2010-10-15"
slug: "nail-biting-101"
author: "Duane Storey"
category:
  - "Journal"
tag:
  - "Blogging"
  - "Habits"
  - "Nail Biting"
---

It’s true, I’m a nail biter. I have been for as long as I can remember. I blame it on my mom, she was a nail biter too!

The thing is, I’ve been biting them so long that for the most part I don’t even know I’m doing it. That’s what makes it a hard habit to stop. It’s not like smoking where you have to go find the pack, pull out a lighter, and then light up. I’ll literally be on the couch and realize my hand is in my mouth and I’m biting.

I’ve actually never been successful quitting, but I’d really like to stop. I’ve tried all those fancy polishes that are supposed to help you stop, but I eat those like no one’s business. In fact, I’m pretty sure I could marinade my fingers in shit for a few days and still come to the realization that I was chewing them.

I’ve spent the last week making an effort not to bite, and I’m been moderately successful, but I’m starting to seriously consider wearing gloves around home for the next few weeks to retrain my brain not to bite. I’m pretty sure once I manage to stop for a few weeks, I won’t do it any more.

The only other nails I’ve ever seen that are as close to as bad as mine are Elijah Wood’s — there are a few close up shots in Lord of the Rings where you can see just how bad his are, and mine are about the same.

So, here goes. Hopefully I’ll be able to quit before heading out on my journey.